# Xu's AI Newsletter Oct 12, 2024
## The Race to Block OpenAI’s Scraping Bots Is Slowing Down
It’s too soon to say how the spate of deals between AI companies and publishers will shake out. OpenAI has already scored one clear win, though: Its web crawlers aren’t getting blocked by top news outlets at the rate they once were.

The generative AI boom sparked a gold rush for data—and a subsequent data-protection rush (for most news websites, anyway) in which publishers sought to block AI crawlers and prevent their work from becoming training data without consent. When Apple debuted a new AI agent this summer, for example, a slew of top news outlets swiftly opted out of Apple’s web scraping using the Robots Exclusion Protocol, or robots.txt, the file that allows webmasters to control bots. There are so many new AI bots on the scene that it can feel like playing whack-a-mole to keep up.

[https://www.wired.com/story/open-ai-publisher-deals-scraping-bots/]

### Editor's Note
Eventually all AI model devlopers are going to pay licence for quality content. This is the right way to go as it gives people incentive to generate quality content and it is only fair that AI model developers pay for their efforts. 

## Wikipedia Declares War on AI Slop
AI slop threatens to degrade the useability of Wikipedia — and its editors are fighting back.

As 404 Media reports, a team of Wikipedia editors has assembled to create "WikiProject AI Cleanup," which describes itself as "a collaboration to combat the increasing problem of unsourced, poorly-written AI-generated content on Wikipedia."

The group is clear that they don't wish to ban responsible AI use outright, but instead seek to eradicate instances of badly-sourced, hallucination-filled,  or otherwise unhelpful AI content that erodes the overall quality of the web's decades-old information repository.

"The purpose of this project is not to restrict or ban the use of AI in articles," the battle-ready cohort's Wikipedia forum reads, "but to verify that its output is acceptable and constructive, and to fix or remove it otherwise."

[https://futurism.com/the-byte/wikipedia-declares-war-ai-slop]

### Editor's Note
We should have a system where AI generated content are clear labeled. 

## OpenAI Fast-Tracks AI Agents. How Do We Balance Benefits With Risks?
During OpenAI’s 2024 DevDay event, the company released new API updates include Realtime API for speech-to-speech interaction, vision fine-tuning for enhanced image recognition and analysis, model distillation to fine-tune smaller, cost-efficient models using outputs from more capable models, and prompt caching to speed up repeated queries by storing common prompts and responses.

These innovations bring AI agents closer to reality, with Sam Altman forecasting their arrival in our daily lives by 2025.

An AI agent autonomously pursues goals in complex environments, following natural language directions and minimal user supervision. It leverages tools to make decisions, often guided by large language models.

[https://www.forbes.com/sites/geruiwang/2024/10/04/openai-fast-tracks-ai-agents-how-do-we-balance-benefits-with-risks/]

### Editor's Note
Will act on user's behalf creating legal problems for users?