# Xu's AI Newsletter Oct 5, 2024
## Editors of Sci-Fi Magazine Disgusted as They Realized Submissions Were Filling With AI Slop
Online fantasy and science fiction magazine Clarkesworld is drowning in an onslaught of AI-generated slop. And given the proliferation of cheap AI language models, the situation is certain to get worse.

As New York Magazine reports, the outlet's creator Neil Clarke suspected "there was something off" about submissions his magazine was getting by late 2022, around the time OpenAI launched its uber-popular ChatGPT.

Things got so bad by February 2023 that Clarke decided to shut down submissions entirely.

"We had reached the point where we were on track to receive as many generated submissions as legitimate ones," he told NYMag.

[https://futurism.com/the-byte/editors-sci-fi-magazine-disgusted-ai-slop]

### Editor's Note
With the dawn of AI era, there would be more and more "junk" content generated by AI. Are we at risk of degrading quality of collective wisdom?

## AI-Powered Hitler Running Rampant Online
Right wing extremists are using artificial intelligence to bring Adolf Hitler back to life for social media consumption.

The AI version of the Third Reich leader is garnering a flood of eyeballs on online platforms, while also whitewashing his image from "worst person in history" to "somebody who was simply misunderstood at the time."

This startling news comes from a study published by the nonprofit think tank Institute for Strategic Dialogue and first shared with the Washington Post, detailing how this new wave of extremist propaganda has made huge inroads online.

Through the magic of AI, it found, Hitler is now reciting his speeches in English in audio or video for platforms such as X-formerly-Twitter, TikTok, YouTube, and Instagram.

[https://futurism.com/the-byte/ai-powered-hitler-online]

### Editor's Note
AI can resurrect evils. Should online platform allow them?

## Nvidia just dropped a bombshell: Its new AI model is open, massive, and ready to rival GPT-4
Nvidia has released a powerful open-source artificial intelligence model that competes with proprietary systems from industry leaders like OpenAI and Google.

The company’s new NVLM 1.0 family of large multimodal language models, led by the 72 billion parameter NVLM-D-72B, demonstrates exceptional performance across vision and language tasks while also enhancing text-only capabilities.

[https://venturebeat.com/ai/nvidia-just-dropped-a-bombshell-its-new-ai-model-is-open-massive-and-ready-to-rival-gpt-4/]

### Editor's Note
Nvidia goes vertical to capture the foundational model market. With its near monopoly on GPUs for AI, would this give them unfair advantage?

## OpenAI Introducing canvas
We’re introducing canvas, a new interface for working with ChatGPT on writing and coding projects that go beyond simple chat. Canvas opens in a separate window, allowing you and ChatGPT to collaborate on a project. This early beta introduces a new way of working together—not just through conversation, but by creating and refining ideas side by side.   

Canvas was built with GPT-4o and can be manually selected in the model picker while in beta. Starting today we’re rolling out canvas to ChatGPT Plus and Team users globally. Enterprise and Edu users will get access next week. We also plan to make canvas available to all ChatGPT Free users when it’s out of beta.

[https://openai.com/index/introducing-canvas/]

### Editor's Note
Embedding AI in user's producitivity tools is the way to go for AI adoption. 

## There’s a Problem WIth AI Programming Assistants: They’re Inserting Far More Errors Into Code
Proponents of generative AI have claimed that the technology can make human workers more productive, especially when it comes to writing computer code.

But does it really? A recent report conducted by coding management software business Uplevel, first spotted by IT magazine CIO, indicates that engineers who use GitHub's popular AI programming assistant Copilot don't experience any significant gains in efficiency.

If anything, the study says usage of Copilot results in 41 percent more errors being inadvertently entered into code.

[https://futurism.com/the-byte/ai-programming-assistants-code-error]

### Editor's Note
Not sure if the study is biased or not. If it is true, this vindicates the AI euphoria. 

## Man Baffled When He Shows Up for Job Interview and the Interviewer Is an AI Avatar
When being evaluated for a job, employment seeker and marketer Jack Ryan found himself being interviewed by an artificial intelligence-powered avatar — and was not exactly thrilled with the experience.

Ryan told 404 Media that the avatar he interviewed with, which was developed by a Melbourne-based AI startup called Fairgo, was "a perfect demonstration of late-stage capitalism."

"While Fairgo's intent is to provide a fair and equitable interview process," Ryan said, "I can't imagine AI, [large language models], and other tools are able to interpret the human emotion and facial reactions to provide an actual, well-rounded interview."

In a clip posted to his LinkedIn last week, the Silicon Valley-based marketer and self-described disabled athlete was seen smirking as the red-haired female avatar asked him for his work experience and encouraged him to get creative.

[https://futurism.com/the-byte/man-baffled-ai-avatar-interviewer]

### Editor's Note
In not far away future, one should not be surprised to work with AI bots as coworkers. 

