# Xu's AI Newsletter Nov 2, 2024
## Researchers say an AI-powered transcription tool used in hospitals invents things no one ever said
ech behemoth OpenAI has touted its artificial intelligence-powered transcription tool Whisper as having near “human level robustness and accuracy.”

But Whisper has a major flaw: It is prone to making up chunks of text or even entire sentences, according to interviews with more than a dozen software engineers, developers and academic researchers. Those experts said some of the invented text — known in the industry as hallucinations — can include racial commentary, violent rhetoric and even imagined medical treatments.

Experts said that such fabrications are problematic because Whisper is being used in a slew of industries worldwide to translate and transcribe interviews, generate text in popular consumer technologies and create subtitles for videos.

More concerning, they said, is a rush by medical centers to utilize Whisper-based tools to transcribe patients’ consultations with doctors, despite OpenAI’ s warnings that the tool should not be used in “high-risk domains.”

[https://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory/researchers-ai-powered-transcription-tool-hospitals-invents-things-115170291]

### Editor's Note
Machine transcription is in the marketplace before Gen AI became mainstream. However, due to euphoria of Gen AI, the quality is not kept in pace with the adoption. AI companies currently trade off the quality with market share and revenue. 

## Thousands Tricked By AI Ad to Show Up For Fake Halloween Parade
You see an ad for a glitzy Halloween parade. You spend weeks getting your costume together (or maybe you settle for a blanket over your head). On the big night, you show up with thousands of others.

Suckers, all of you. There's no procession, no parade. That's right: you just got duped by a totally fake ad campaign, generated with AI.

This is what happened in Dublin last night, where after waiting for at least an hour, the attendees slowly caught on that nothing was actually planned for that evening. Photos and videos shared on social media capture the total anti-climax of a scene.

"No Gardai around" — that's what they call cops in Ireland — "no official announcement, people waiting on the wrong side of the road…" tweeted one person who turned out to the nonevent. "Someone did pull a big #hoax #prank."

[https://futurism.com/the-byte/thousands-tricked-ai-fake-parade]

### Editor's Note
Crooks have been around for centuries. However AI gives more power to these people as it can generate ever more sophiscated and authenticly looking materials. This will erode trust among people which is the foundation of civil soceity. 

## Sam Altman explains OpenAI's shift from open to closed AI models
OpenAI has gotten some heat for not being as "open" as its name may suggest.CEO Sam Altman explained the company's shift to closed AI models in a Reddit AMA on Thursday.

It offers "an easier way to hit the safety threshold" and OpenAI wants "to open source more stuff in the future," he said.

[https://www.businessinsider.com/sam-altman-why-openai-closed-source-ai-models-2024-11]

### Editor's Note
Saying that a closed model is safer without evidence is more like an excuse to hide the real motive of making more money. Closed model is no safer than a closed software. There are open source software that are much more secure than a proprietary one. 

