# Xu's AI Newsletter Nov 9, 2024
## Should you be polite to artificial intelligence?
It’s fairly standard – not to mention common courtesy – to lead with politeness most of the time when interacting with people. But should good manners extend beyond our interactions with others to minding our ps and qs when it comes to artificial intelligence (AI)?

Whether we’re happy about it or not, AI, from the generative ChatGPT to personal assistants like Siri, is becoming increasingly woven into our daily lives. The question is no longer if, but in what ways we interact with these systems.

Dr Eduardo Benitez Sandoval is a social robotics researcher at the School of Art & Design, UNSW Arts, Design & Architecture, whose expertise spans different aspects of the field, including human-robot interaction. He says there is growing interest in understanding the dynamics of how machines interact with humans in meaningful ways.

“From a design perspective, we have principles in the field of social robotics that say human-robotic interactions should be enjoyable, reciprocal, inclusive, and universal,” Dr Sandoval says. “I think we could say one facet of this is interacting in respectful and considerate ways, in other words, being polite.”

[https://www.unsw.edu.au/newsroom/news/2024/11/should-you-be-polite-to-artificial-intelligence]

### Editor's Note
This probably makes sense as AI is trained on human corpus. Generally, more meaningful and useful conversations are from polite exchanges. 

## AI That Can Invent AI Is Coming. Buckle Up.
Leopold Aschenbrenner’s “Situational Awareness” manifesto made waves when it was published this summer.

In this provocative essay, Aschenbrenner—a 22-year-old wunderkind and former OpenAI researcher—argues that artificial general intelligence will be here by 2027, that artificial intelligence will consume 20% of all U.S. electricity by 2029, and that AI will unleash untold powers of destruction that within years will reshape the world geopolitical order.

Aschenbrenner’s startling thesis about exponentially accelerating AI progress rests on one core premise: that AI will soon become powerful enough to carry out AI research itself, leading to recursive self-improvement and runaway superintelligence.

[https://www.forbes.com/sites/robtoews/2024/11/03/ai-that-can-invent-ai-is-coming-buckle-up/]

### Editor's Note
If this ever happens, will human lose control of all the AIs?

## Cyber Attack Warning As Hackers Use AI And Gmail In New Campaign
Hackers using AI very nearly compromised the account of a Gmail user, as I recounted in a recent report that went viral. Now both Gmail and AI are back in the spotlight together, but as part of a large-scale hacking campaign targeting both consumers and corporations with a financially motivated payload. 

Unlike the deepfake AI-generated cyber attack that so nearly compromised a Gmail account user by impersonating Google support, the newly uncovered CopyRh(ight)adamantys campaign is simultaneously more sophisticated and a lot simpler.

Let’s deal with that overly complicated name first: this cyber attack, described as a large-scale phishing campaign by Check Point Software researchers, uses a newly discovered variant of the Rhadamanthys information stealer malware. The attack also uses a false premise of the victim being responsible for copyright infringement violations. The conflation of these two things giving us that awful, pun-laden, CopyRh(ight)adamantys label.

[https://www.forbes.com/sites/daveywinder/2024/11/07/cyber-attack-warning-as-hackers-use-ai-and-gmail-in-new-campaign/]

### Editor's Note
It is going to get harder to outsmart cyber criminals. 

## Technical Learning for the Week
if you are interested in GPU workload management, check out [https://docs.nvidia.com/deploy/mps/index.html]



