# Xu's AI Newsletter Dec 7, 2024
## Land of Agents
This article will go over the basics of AI agents and some popular frameworks. Agent is a party that works on user's behalf. AI agent is an autonomous party carrying out the tasks on user's behalf. The basic design of an agent is very simple. It has a world view (i.e. the context of environment it operates in); it takes an input from users or another agent; it will take an action. The action could be anything from text output to triggering a robotic arm to move. The action could also impact the environment it is in. For example, if the action is to remove a file from the file system. The file system (the environment) is mutated. There could also be chain of actions performed by an agent. 

The simplest agent in Gen AI world could be a chatbot agent which takes a user's prompt and output a chat answer. Behind scene, the chatbot may use LLM to generate the output. More complicated agent could be DB Query agent, which will take the user's question and have actions such as generating SQL statements based on users' question and run the SQL statement against the database and finally return the result. Optionally, it may process the result set from SQL query and turn into answer using natural language. In the case of DB query agent, the environment is the database so the agent needs to know the database schema, connection methods, security, etc so it has all the context. 

One of course can build any agent from ground up. But there are many agent building framework which can speed up the construction and test of AI agents. I will highlight a few people can explore. 

### Microsoft AutoAgent
This is an open source agent framework contributed by Microsoft. [https://github.com/microsoft/autogen]. It has wide support of different agent backend and LLM backends. It also support multi-agent which is quite useful if you need to build a task flow requiring collaboration of multiple agents. For more detailed information, you can check out [https://microsoft.github.io/autogen/dev/user-guide/agentchat-user-guide/quickstart.html]

### Crew AI
Crew AI is another popular open source Agent framework. It provides lots of management feature of agents. It can define tasks and flows and manage agents in a crew. It also provides training feature to train agents. You can check out more in [https://docs.crewai.com/introduction]

### PhiData
Phidata is a framework for building agentic systems, engineers use phidata to:

- Build Agents with memory, knowledge, tools and reasoning. examples
- Build teams of Agents that can work together. example
- Chat with Agents using a beautiful Agent UI. example
- Monitor, evaluate and optimize Agents. example
- Build agentic systems i.e. applications with an API, database and vectordb.
[https://www.phidata.com/]

### LangGraph

LangGraph is a library for building stateful, multi-actor applications with LLMs, used to create agent and multi-agent workflows. Compared to other LLM frameworks, it offers these core benefits: cycles, controllability, and persistence. LangGraph allows you to define flows that involve cycles, essential for most agentic architectures, differentiating it from DAG-based solutions. As a very low-level framework, it provides fine-grained control over both the flow and state of your application, crucial for creating reliable agents.

For more information, check out [https://github.com/langchain-ai/langgraph]

### LLamaIndex
LLamaIndex is actually a RAG framework but it has support for workflow and calling agent. You can define agents that are triggered by events in a workflow. It supports Human In the Loop kind of workflow as well. You can find more information here [https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/stable/module_guides/workflow/]

### Vertex AI Agent Builder
This is a Google's answer to the agent world. Open source tools require some coding while Vertex AI Agent is low code / no code solution with UI. It is easy tool to start a POC. [https://cloud.google.com/products/agent-builder?hl=en#build-conversational-ai-agents-in-minutes]


### Bedrock Agent Builder
This is the AWS product which has similar features. You can now quickly create an agent and optionally add instructions and action groups later, providing flexibility and agility for your development process. All agent configurations can be operated in the new agent builder section of the console. [https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/agents-for-amazon-bedrock-introducing-a-simplified-creation-and-configuration-experience/]

### Microsoft Copilot Agent Builder
Copilot Studio agent builder can create and customize agents that can be used with Microsoft 365 Copilot to cover scenario-specific uses cases, such as:

- An agent that provides writing or presentation coaching that is tailored to organizational standards
- A team onboarding agent that responds with specific information about the user's new team and helps them complete onboarding tasks
[https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365-copilot/extensibility/copilot-studio-agent-builder]

