# Xu's AI Newsletter July 26, 2024

## Microsoft’s Designer app arrives on iOS and Android with AI editing and creation

Microsoft’s AI-powered Designer app is coming out of preview today for both iOS and Android users. Microsoft Designer lets you use templates to create custom images, stickers, greeting cards, invitations, and more. Designer can also use AI to edit images and restyle them or create collages of images.

Originally available on the web or through Microsoft Edge, Designer has been in preview for nearly a year. It’s now generally available to anyone with a personal Microsoft account and as a free app for Windows, iOS, and Android. The mobile app includes the ability to create images and edit them on the go.

[https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/17/24200294/microsoft-designer-app-launch-windows-ios-android-features](https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/17/24200294/microsoft-designer-app-launch-windows-ios-android-features)

### Editor's Note

Creative use cases will be the most popular form of initial adoption of Gen AI tool due to the fact that these user are not concerned about hullicinations in these use cases. As a matter of fact, hullicinations are good as they are leading to creative ideas. Smart move for Microsoft. 

## U.S. Reportedly Enhancing Chip Export Restrictions to China, while NVIDIA’s H20 Might Get Banned

According to a report from Tom’s Hardware, the U.S. is considering implementing new trade sanctions on China, looking to limit China’s access to advanced AI chip technology. This could result in a ban on NVIDIA’s HGX-H20 AI GPUs to China. If implemented, NVIDIA could potentially lose roughly USD 12 billion in revenue.

To comply with U.S. export regulations, NVIDIA introduced the HGX H20 GPU specifically for the Chinese market. Although it has reduced performance, it still offers powerful AI capabilities.

As per the report, the HGX H20 GPU features 296 INT8 TOPS/FP8 TFLOPS computational performance, 96 GB of HBM3 memory, and 4.0 TB/s memory bandwidth, making it competitive with the current entry-level AI chips on the market. Despite its downgraded performance, the HGX H20 outperforms Huawei’s self-developed Ascend 920 series AI chips in practical applications due to its better memory performance.

[https://www.trendforce.com/news/2024/07/22/news-u-s-reportedly-enhancing-chip-export-restrictions-to-china-while-nvidias-h20-might-get-banned](https://www.trendforce.com/news/2024/07/22/news-u-s-reportedly-enhancing-chip-export-restrictions-to-china-while-nvidias-h20-might-get-banned)

### Editor's Note

The rivalry between US and China will get intensified in the coming years if not decades. Unfortunately, for AI, only very large countries will dominate due to their economic scale, access to large pool of talents and training data. Leading AI models could take billions of dollars to train.  Smaller countries need to join hands even to have a chance to compete. 



## Salesforce debuts Einstein Service Agent, a new AI Agent for customer self-service

Salesforce is jumping into the AI agent world with a new service that builds on the company’s Einstein platform for AI.

The new Einstein Service Agent is a generative AI-powered self-service experience for customers. Einstein Service Agent is designed for end-customers to use, providing a conversational AI interface to answer questions and get resolution for any number of issues. The new agent service uses a similar foundation as Einstein Copilot, which is employee-facing, for internal use within an organization. 

[https://venturebeat.com/ai/salesforce-debuts-einstein-service-agent-a-new-ai-agent-for-customer-self-service/](https://venturebeat.com/ai/salesforce-debuts-einstein-service-agent-a-new-ai-agent-for-customer-self-service/)


### Editor's Note

ChatGPT has popularized the chat interface with Gen AI. However, chat is not the best interface and will not be the most common way of using Gen AI because chat is inherently slow. The better way is to integrate Gen AI with productivity tool such as IDE, Ticketing Systems or other productivity tools. 

## Meta releases the biggest and best open-source AI model yet

Back in April, Meta teased that it was working on a first for the AI industry: an open-source model with performance that matched the best private models from companies like OpenAI.

Today, that model has arrived. Meta is releasing Llama 3.1, the largest-ever open-source AI model, which the company claims outperforms GPT-4o and Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 Sonnet on several benchmarks. It’s also making the Llama-based Meta AI assistant available in more countries and languages while adding a feature that can generate images based on someone’s specific likeness. CEO Mark Zuckerberg now predicts that Meta AI will be the most widely used assistant by the end of this year, surpassing ChatGPT.

Llama 3.1 is significantly more complex than the smaller Llama 3 models that came out a few months ago. The largest version has 405 billion parameters and was trained with over 16,000 of Nvidia’s ultraexpensive H100 GPUs. Meta isn’t disclosing the cost of developing Llama 3.1, but based on the cost of the Nvidia chips alone, it’s safe to guess it was hundreds of millions of dollars.

[https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/23/24204055/meta-ai-llama-3-1-open-source-assistant-openai-chatgpt](https://www.theverge.com/2024/7/23/24204055/meta-ai-llama-3-1-open-source-assistant-openai-chatgpt)


### Editor's Note

The competition just got more intense. We are glad to see Meta publish this as open source which will spur more innovations. The open source models force cloud providers to compete on the hosting efficiency which will make the AI model more and more affordable in the race to zero. 

## AI arms race escalates: OpenAI offers free GPT-4o Mini fine-tuning to counter Meta’s Llama 3.1 release

OpenAI has intensified the AI arms race by announcing free fine-tuning for its GPT-4o Mini model, just hours after Meta launched its open-source Llama 3.1 model.

While OpenAI had teased the imminent arrival of customization features in last week’s GPT-4o Mini announcement, the timing of this release couldn’t have been more perfect—or more pointed. Just hours after Meta released its Llama 3.1 model, OpenAI fired back with its own offering. Coincidence? Perhaps. But in the high-stakes competition for AI dominance, such precise moves rarely happen by chance.

[https://venturebeat.com/ai/ai-arms-race-escalates-openai-offers-free-gpt-4o-mini-fine-tuning-to-counter-metas-llama-3-1-release/](https://venturebeat.com/ai/ai-arms-race-escalates-openai-offers-free-gpt-4o-mini-fine-tuning-to-counter-metas-llama-3-1-release/)

### Editor's Note

This announcement happened on the same day Meta open sourced Llama 3.1 really signifies the intensity of the competition. It also highlights the market for fine tuned model is large and demand is high and real. 

## Fast, accurate climate modeling with NeuralGCM

Today we report on NeuralGCM, a model that can rapidly, efficiently, and accurately simulate Earth’s atmosphere.

While we know that our planet is warming in unprecedented ways, what those rising temperatures will mean for our future isn’t totally clear. What parts of the globe will face prolonged droughts? Where will large tropical storms make coastal flooding more frequent? How will wildfire seasons change as temperatures rise? To try to answer these and other related questions, scientists need the ability to make accurate predictions about Earth’s climate.

Today in “Neural general circulation models for weather and climate”, published in Nature, we describe NeuralGCM, a new machine learning (ML) based approach to simulating Earth's atmosphere. Developed in partnership with the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), NeuralGCM combines traditional physics-based modeling with ML for improved simulation accuracy and efficiency. This approach generates 2–15 day weather forecasts that are more accurate than the current gold-standard physics-based model, and reproduces temperatures over a past 40-year period more accurately than traditional atmospheric models. Although we have not yet built NeuralGCM into a full climate model, it marks a significant step towards developing more powerful and accessible climate models. We hope it will eventually enable a more accurate and actionable understanding of how our climate is changing.

[https://research.google/blog/fast-accurate-climate-modeling-with-neuralgcm/](https://research.google/blog/fast-accurate-climate-modeling-with-neuralgcm/)

### Editor's Note

Although this is not related to LLM, deep neural networks have shown the strength in other disciplines beyond languages and reasoning (which is still being researched whether LLM is actually doing reasoning like human do). With this, Google also demonstrated to the world it is still leading researches in advanced AI. 

[July 19th Newsletter](7-19-2024.md)